A ladybug lands on the 12 of a clock,
and every second she moves randomly to
a neighboring number, either one step
clockwise or one step counterclockwise.
Here each time she touches a number I'm
colouring it red, and on this run of the
simulation, the last number to get coloured is 3.
And if I run the simulation a second time,
again where she continues until every number
is coloured, the last one to get coloured is 1.
My puzzle for you is what is the probability that
the very last number to get coloured is the 6?
This is the first in a set of monthly puzzles
that I'll be posting this year as part of a
collaboration with the mathematician Peter
Winkler.
The spirit of it is to not give away
the answer right away, we both want
to give you a chance to mull it over.
Every month Peter is going to hop onto a Zoom
call to talk through a very elegant way to answer
the relevant puzzle, and if you want to sign up
to join those, go to momath.org slash mindbenders.
It's all part of the MoMath Museum's Year of Math.